collect-traces/lists/top-50-selected-multi.md, before:

# top-50-selected-multi list
This document describes how the top-50-selected-multi.list file was created. Had
to get to Alexa rank 212. 

## November update


## How created
Approach for the list is simple but boring. Starting from the top of the Alexa
top-list, asking two questions to decide if we include the site or not:
- Is the site reliable to visit over Tor? That is, not behind some cloudwall or
  blacklist? Also, does it load reliably. 
- Does the site contain several _similar_ webpages beyond the frontpage that can
  be accessed? 

## General pruning
- remove all tracking stuff in URL that still gives the page on a clean TB
- avoid porn (for sake of work)
- try not to mix significant content types on pages, like mixing videos and text
  articles on news-site (that's two different classes)

## Per-site notes
- wikipedia.org: took 10 links from today's feature article
- amazon.com: first 10 of Today's deals under $25
- reddit.com: the first 10 subreddits on the frontpage
- okezone.com: the first 10 articles
- yahoo.co.jp: the first 10 articles
- tor.stackexchange.com: 10 latest questions
- ebay.com: first 10 offers
- aliexpress.com: top 10 selection items
- msn.com: first 10 articles
- tribunnews.com: first 10 articles
- twitch.tv: top 10 games listing
- yandex.ru: top 10 clips in the first category shown
- imdb.com: top 10 of movies opening this week
- aws.amazon.com: the first product page from the first 10 products (reading order)
- booking.com: search in first 10 places listed
- medium.com: top 10 features stories
- detik.com: top 10 in news feed
- bbc.com: top 10 articles
- indeed.com: top 10 popular job searches
- w3schools.com: top 10 links left column
- nytimes.com: first 10 articles
- cnn.com: first 10 articles, mixed content types
- imgur.com: top 10 viral
- fandom.com: top 10 articles with big underlineable links
- stackexchange.com: top 10 hot links
- soundcloud.com: top 10 trending
- github.com: top 10 trending today
- nih.gov: 10 latest news releases
- theguardian.com: 10 frontpage linked articles
- slideshare.net: top 10 featured slides
- sindonews.com: top 10 "TERPOPULER"
- freepik.com: top 10 Feepik's choice
- uol.com.br: 10 articles on frontpage
- walmart.com: top 10 shop categories
- etsy.com: top 10 personalized jewellery from frontpage
- wikihow.com: top 10 linked wikis
- craigslist.org: 10 different cities in different US states
- ladbible.com: top 10 trending
- archive.org: top 10 collections at the archive
- nicovideo.jp: top 10 ranked videos
- setn.com: 10 non-video articles on frontpage
- forbes.com: 10 popular articles
- thepiratebay.org: 10 top categories listings
- pixabay.com: 10 popular image categories
- gfycat.com: top 10 trending gifs
- healthline.com: 10 first articles
- dictionary.com: 10 random articles
- suara.com: 10 newsarticles
- sciencedirect.com: 10 article listing
- foxnews.com: 10 frontpage articles

Commit message:

list update for january run

collect-traces/lists/top-50-selected-multi.md, after:

# top-50-selected-multi list
This document describes how the top-50-selected-multi.list file was created. Had
to get to Alexa rank 212. 

## January update
- replaced two headlines that 404:ed from headlines.yahoo.co.jp
- replaced four items that was replaced from ebay.com
- replaced four articles that 404:ed from suara.com

## How created
Approach for the list is simple but boring. Starting from the top of the Alexa
top-list, asking two questions to decide if we include the site or not:
- Is the site reliable to visit over Tor? That is, not behind some cloudwall or
  blacklist? Also, does it load reliably. 
- Does the site contain several _similar_ webpages beyond the frontpage that can
  be accessed? 

## General pruning
- remove all tracking stuff in URL that still gives the page on a clean TB
- avoid porn (for sake of work)
- try not to mix significant content types on pages, like mixing videos and text
  articles on news-site (that's two different classes)

## Per-site notes
- wikipedia.org: took 10 links from today's feature article
- amazon.com: first 10 of Today's deals under $25
- reddit.com: the first 10 subreddits on the frontpage
- okezone.com: the first 10 articles
- yahoo.co.jp: the first 10 articles
- tor.stackexchange.com: 10 latest questions
- ebay.com: first 10 offers
- aliexpress.com: top 10 selection items
- msn.com: first 10 articles
- tribunnews.com: first 10 articles
- twitch.tv: top 10 games listing
- yandex.ru: top 10 clips in the first category shown
- imdb.com: top 10 of movies opening this week
- aws.amazon.com: the first product page from the first 10 products (reading order)
- booking.com: search in first 10 places listed
- medium.com: top 10 features stories
- detik.com: top 10 in news feed
- bbc.com: top 10 articles
- indeed.com: top 10 popular job searches
- w3schools.com: top 10 links left column
- nytimes.com: first 10 articles
- cnn.com: first 10 articles, mixed content types
- imgur.com: top 10 viral
- fandom.com: top 10 articles with big underlineable links
- stackexchange.com: top 10 hot links
- soundcloud.com: top 10 trending
- github.com: top 10 trending today
- nih.gov: 10 latest news releases
- theguardian.com: 10 frontpage linked articles
- slideshare.net: top 10 featured slides
- sindonews.com: top 10 "TERPOPULER"
- freepik.com: top 10 Feepik's choice
- uol.com.br: 10 articles on frontpage
- walmart.com: top 10 shop categories
- etsy.com: top 10 personalized jewellery from frontpage
- wikihow.com: top 10 linked wikis
- craigslist.org: 10 different cities in different US states
- ladbible.com: top 10 trending
- archive.org: top 10 collections at the archive
- nicovideo.jp: top 10 ranked videos
- setn.com: 10 non-video articles on frontpage
- forbes.com: 10 popular articles
- thepiratebay.org: 10 top categories listings
- pixabay.com: 10 popular image categories
- gfycat.com: top 10 trending gifs
- healthline.com: 10 first articles
- dictionary.com: 10 random articles
- suara.com: 10 newsarticles
- sciencedirect.com: 10 article listing
- foxnews.com: 10 frontpage articles
