collect-traces/README.md, before:

# Orchestrating trace collection

Here we describe how we collect traces using python, shell-scripts, and several
machines with docker. First download this folder and a fresh Linux Tor Browser
install from torproject.org.

## Modify Tor Browser
Edit `Browser/start-tor-browser`, line 12, change it to:

```bash
if [ "x$DISPLAY" = "x" ] && [[ "$*" != *--headless* ]]; then
```

This makes it possible to run Tor Browser in headless mode without a full X
install (no more `xvfb`, yay). 

Edit `Browser/TorBrowser/Data/Tor/torrc` and set any necessary restrictions,
e.g., `EntryNodes`, `MiddleNodes` or`UseEntryGuards`, depending on experiment to
run. If you're using the [circuitpadding
simulator](https://github.com/pylls/circpad-sim), build the custom `tor` binary,
add it to TB at `Browser/TorBrowser/Tor/`, and add ``Log [circ]info notice
stdout'' to `torrc`.

## Docker
1. On the machine(s) you want to use for collection, install docker. 
2. Build the Dockerfile by `cd collect-traces/docker` and `docker build -t
   wf-collect .` (note the dot).

## Run an experiment
1. Copy `tor-browser_en-US` that you modified earlier into `exp`. 
2. From `exp`, run `./set_tb_permissions.sh`. 
3. Create a sub-folder in `exp` for the results data, in our case, `mkdir data`, and
   give complete access: `chmod 777 data` (lazy, but works).

Edit `run.sh` and then run it from this folder: `./run.sh`. This runs the number
of docker containers specified.

The docker containers will use the results folder to coordinate trace
collection. If you're using several machines to run many containers, you have at
least two options:

1. Split by samples, that is, have each machine download a subset of the total
   number of samples then manually merge (and rename) afterwards.
2. On all machines, mount a remote filesystem and use it to coordinate across
   containers and machines.

Commit message:

fixed run script, updated readme with new server-client structure

collect-traces/README.md, after:

# Orchestrating trace collection

Here we describe how we collect traces using python, shell-scripts, and several
machines with docker. Collection is orchestrated by a collection server.

## Modify Tor Browser
First download this folder and a fresh Linux Tor Browser install from
torproject.org. Edit `Browser/start-tor-browser`, line 12, change it to:

```bash
if [ "x$DISPLAY" = "x" ] && [[ "$*" != *--headless* ]]; then
```

This makes it possible to run Tor Browser in headless mode without a full X
install (no more `xvfb`, yay). 

Edit `Browser/TorBrowser/Data/Tor/torrc` and set any necessary restrictions,
e.g., `EntryNodes`, `MiddleNodes` or`UseEntryGuards`, depending on experiment to
run. If you're using the [circuitpadding
simulator](https://github.com/pylls/circpad-sim), build the custom `tor` binary,
add it to TB at `Browser/TorBrowser/Tor/`, and add ``Log [circ]info notice
stdout'' to `torrc`.

## Docker
1. On the machine(s) you want to use for collection, install docker. 
2. Build the Dockerfile by `cd collect-traces/docker` and `docker build -t
   wf-collect .` (note the dot).

## Run an experiment
1. Copy `tor-browser_en-US` that you modified earlier into `exp`. 
2. Run `./set_tb_permissions.sh`. 

Edit `run.sh` and then run it once you've setup a server.

## Setup a collection server
Run `server.py` on a server that can be reached from the docker containers. The
parameters to the script are largely self-explanatory:

```
usage: server.py [-h] -l L -n N -d D [-m M]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  -l L        file with list of sites to visit, one site per line
  -n N        number of samples
  -d D        data folder for storing results
  -m M        minimum number of lines in torlog to accept
```

All clients will attempt to get work from the server, and on failure, sleeps for
the specified timeout (default: 60s) before trying again.
